---
Difficulty: "Hard" 
tags: ["slibing window"]
---

> Problem: [2444. Count Subarrays With Fixed Bounds](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-subarrays-with-fixed-bounds/description/?envType=daily-question&envId=2024-03-31)

# Idea
Don't ask me why, ask [lee215](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-subarrays-with-fixed-bounds/solutions/2708099/java-c-python-sliding-window-with-explanation/?envType=daily-question&envId=2024-03-31)

The most important is the formula. This is implemented by the concept of slibing window, however, he utilize `-1` and `jbad` to control the range of subarray.

# Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    long long countSubarrays(vector<int>& A, int minK, int maxK) {
        long res = 0, jbad = -1, jmin = -1, jmax = -1, n = A.size();
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (A[i] < minK || A[i] > maxK) jbad = i;
            if (A[i] == minK) jmin = i;
            if (A[i] == maxK) jmax = i;
            res += max(0L, min(jmin, jmax) - jbad);
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```

update!
to illustrate how this related to slibing window: Given A = [0, 0, 1, 3, 2, 5, 6], maxK = 1, minK = 3

for each iterations, it emulates insert in a window. The first 3 iterations insert [0, 0, 1] into window, which doesn't nth to `res`. After inserting element 3, res = 1. For each iteration, we maintain the leftbound of subarray with range [minK, maxK], and the rightbound of subarray that is passed through already. For example,

insert [0, 0, 1, 3] in window, the rightbound is the second zero, and the leftbound is the first one. We simply accumulate for each iteration if the window is suit for the requirements.
after that, insert [2] => [0, 0, 1, 3, 2], the rightbound is still the second zero, leftbound is the first one. res += max(0, min(2, 3) - 1) => res += 1 => res = 2
However, if insert a 5, => [0, 0, 1, 3, 2, 5], the rightbound moves to the index of 5 => index(5) = 5, leftbound unchanged, but the res will not accumulate anything in this iteration.

In a short summary, variable `res` accumulate if and only if the leftbound is greater than the rightbound. formula `min(jmin, jmax) - jbad` calculate the contribution for each iteration if leftbound > rightbound.

How do we come up with the formula `min(jmin, jmax) - jbad`? Consider this case:

A = [0, 0, 2, 2, 1, 3, 2, 1], minK = 1, maxK = 3

in this case, after 6 iterations, which comes to the first 3. The rightbound is the second 0 with index 1 and the leftbound is the first one with index 4. res += max(0, min(4, 5) - 1) => res = 3
what are the three subarrays? subarrays = [2, 2, 1, 3], [2, 1, 3], [1, 3]. Since the rightbound is two elements behind the leftbound, so we need to count the two element for each iterations. Next iteration will be res += max(0, min(4, 5) - 1) => res = 3 + 3. Again, the subarrays are [2, 2, 1, 3, 2], [2, 1, 3, 2], [1, 3, 2]. We say that the rightmost 2 contribute nth to the result.

How about the iteration? insert 1 into the window => [0, 0, 2, 2, 1, 3, 2, 1], then update jmin = 7. res += max(0, max(5, 7) - 1) => res = 3 + 3 + 4. This iterations accumulate 4 more subarrays! They are [2, 2, 1, 3, 2, 1], [2, 1, 3, 2, 1], [1, 3, 2, 1], [3, 2, 1]. In this case, we discard the leftmost minK. Therefore, we don't care about minK or maxK come first.
