---
title: "740. Delete and Earn"
tags: ["dp"]
---
> Problem: [740. Delete and Earn](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-and-earn/)
# Problem description
You are given an integer array nums. You want to maximize the number of points you get by performing the following operation any number of times:

- Pick any nums[i] and delete it to earn nums[i] points.Afterwards, you must delete every element equal to nums[i] - 1 and every element equal to nums[i] + 1.

Return the maximum number of points you can earn by applying the above operation some number of times.

## Example: 
>**Input**: nums = [3,4,2]

>**Output**: 6

>**Explanation**: You can perform the following operations:
>- Delete 4 to earn 4 points. Consequently, 3 is also deleted. nums = [2].
>- Delete 2 to earn 2 points. nums = [].

>You earn a total of 6 points.
# Reasoning 
- This problem is a variant of the [198. House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/) problem, which can be solved using dynamic programming.
- According to the problem, when we choose an element with value `x` in the nums array, all elements with the value `x-1` or `x+1` will be deleted.
- So, when we choose a value `x`, we choose all elements with the value `x`.
- Based on this analysis, all we have to do is compare the sum of values xs to the sum of values `x+1`*s* and `x-1`*s*.
- To solve this problem, we can use dynamic programming to calculate the maximum points we can earn at each value `x`.
- We initialize a dp array of size `10001` (the maximum number of input constraints) to store the sums of values xs, with the value `x` (which is `nums[i]`) as the index.
- After initialization, we need to find the relationship between the states of the dp array. Here is the formula:
`dp[i] = max(dp[i-1], dp[i-2] + dp[i]);`
- For better understanding, the formula should be `dp[i] = max(dp[i-1], dp[i-2] + valueofsums[i])`;, where the dp array represents the largest sum that can be obtained at value `i`. The `valueofsums[]` array is the one that requires initialization as we did above.
- Finally, as the array loops up to `i == 10000`, we find the largest sum that can be obtained at the value `10000`.

# Complexity
## Time Complexity
> $O(nums.size()+10001)$
## Space Complexity
> $O(10001)$

# Code
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int deleteAndEarn(vector<int>& nums) {
        int dp[10001]={0};
        for(int i=0;i<nums.size();i++){
            dp[nums[i]] += nums[i];
        }
        for(int i=2; i<10001; i++ ){
            dp[i] = max(dp[i-1],dp[i-2]+dp[i]);
        }
        return dp[10000];
    }
};
```